Node and React Native Data Types (#1065)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/node/data-types/uuid.txt

.. _node-data-types-uuid:

==================
UUID - Node.js SDK
==================
.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. versionadded:: 10.5.0-beta.1

Overview
--------

``UUID`` (Universal Unique Identifier) is a 16-byte :wikipedia:`unique value
<Universally_unique_identifier>`. You can use ``UUID`` as an identifier for
objects. ``UUID`` is :ref:`indexable <node-indexes>` and you can use it as a
:ref:`primary key <node-primary-keys>`.

.. note:: Using UUID Instead of ObjectId

>    In general, you can use ``UUID`` in any field that you need a unique
>    identifier. Using ``UUID`` might be particularly useful if you are migrating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In general, you can use ``UUID`` for any fields that function as a unique
   identifier. Using ``UUID`` might be particularly useful if you are migrating
```
"any field that you need a unique identifier" doesn't sound like correct English to me, but I can't quite put my finger on why.

   data not stored in MongoDB since it is likely that your object's unique

>    identifiers are already of a ``UUID`` type.

Reviewer: No callout here to the fact that you should use ``ObjectId`` for collections of data that already exist in MongoDB? That feels like a significant omission since without that statement we basically never talk about when you would actually use ObjectId.

Author: Fair point, I've added the sentence "Alternatively, using ``ObjectId`` might be useful for a collection of data that already exists in MongoDB."

Usage
----- 
To define a property as a ``UUID``, set its type to the string ``"uuid"`` in

> your :ref:`object model <node-object-schemas>`. Create a {+service-short+}
> object within a write transaction. To set any unique identifier properties of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your :ref:`object model <node-object-schemas>`. To set any unique identifier properties of
```
I'm not sure if the command/instruction to "create a Realm object within a write transaction" actually fits here. Readers already know that you're talking about a theoretical object model that contains a UUID field, so personally I'd say that the instructions to set properties with ``new UUID()`` should suffice to explain how to generate new UUID instances and put them in such an object.

Author: Decided to ignore this one, as it doesn't hurt to re-explain that it needs to be within a write transaction. Personally, I've made the mistake of not writing in a write transaction, and then realized once I got the error, so I think a short reminder sentence might be helpful.

Reviewer: Fair enough, but just note that we don't tell users to modify fields in write transactions in the very same paragraph, even though you need to use a write transaction for all modifications.

Perhaps you've missed the point of my comment, though, which was that instructing users to create an instance of the object is probably redundant since they'll know that they need an instance to modify a property.

Author: 'in the very same paragraph' as in the last sentence of that paragraph?: 'Alternatively, set a string to new UUID() to set the unique identifier property to a specific value.'? That sentence is meant to show a specific usage of the new UUID constructor, rather than how to use UUIDs as a whole within the realm and within a write object (which the previous sentences teach). 

Even if it's a bit redundant, I think that sentence still works and could be helpful to readers who may not know or who forget that you need a write transaction and an instance of an object to set or modify a uuid property. 

Let me know if I'm misunderstanding your concern/suggestion though.
